---
title: "Jarrett Fuller to speak at SVA"
permalink: "/news/sva-dcrit"
layout: news-item
type: News
hero:
summary: "His public talk will be on Scratching the Surface of Alternative Publishing"
site-title: Read the list
site: https://www.fastcompany.com/90955359/5-essential-design-books-to-read-this-fall
---

SVA's MA Design Research, Writing and Criticism presents a talk with designer, writer, editor, educator and podcaster Jarrett Fuller. Fuller brings his narrative prowess into the studio for a conversation about the lifespan of his notable podcast Scratching the Surface, the value of alternative publishing platforms and how to find your ideal platform in the design world.

D﻿oors open at 6:00pm; talk begins at 6:30pm. All talks are followed by a reception in the MA Design Research, Writing and Criticism studio, where guests can meet featured speakers and prospective students can chat with current MA candidates, faculty and alumni.

Jarrett Fuller is a designer, writer, educator, editor and podcaster. He is an assistant professor of graphic design at North Carolina State University; director of twenty-six, a multidisciplinary design and editorial studio; and host of the design podcast Scratching the Surface. He previously worked as a designer at Facebook, Warby Parker and The Whitney Museum of American Art. He received his BFA in graphic design from Kutztown University and his MFA in graphic design and critical studies from Maryland Institute College of Art.

Scratching the Surface is podcast about design, theory and creative practice. Hosted by Jarrett Fuller, each episode features wide-ranging, in-depth conversations with designers, architects, writers, academics, artists and theorists about how design shapes culture. New episodes are released every other Wednesday.